# cipher.py README File

## Purpose

The purpose of this code is to encipher or decipher a secret message by letting the user input a chosen pad and message that is stoted in a file, or allows the user to generate a pad to encipher the message. 

## Imports 

### **random** 

Used random package to use random.randrange() to get random numbers from ASCII 65 to 90 to make a random pad of capital letters.

### **time**

Time package is used to create a file name with the time the file was made. This was they only way I could keep track of the files that were made or else it kept writing in the same file instead of writing in a new one. 

## Inputs
- **message**: The filepath to the message the user will like to use.
- **pad**: The filepath to the pad the user would like to use.
> Both inputs go through a readFile() function to read the file and store the text in a variable to be used in the later functions. The file has to read before going through the encipher() and decipher() function. 

## Functions

### **ask()**

This function takes no inputs and asks the user if they want to encipher or decipher.

### **getChar(message)**

This function takes a string as an input to turn every character in the message into an item in a list.
> ex: "Hi" would become ["H", "i"]

### **readFile(filename)**

This function takes the filepath from the user as input so the file can be read and returned to be stored in a variable.

### **writeMessage(text)**

This function writes the text stored into a variable into a file with a file name with the time the file, and pad if one was made, with the time the file was made in the file name.

### **writePad(pad)**

Like the writeMessage() function,this function writes the pad generated by the user into a file. There is a separate write function for the pad and the secret message because when there was only one function both got written in the same file. 

### **generatePad(message)**

This function takes the length of the length of the message and creates a random pad between 65 - 90 ASCII code for A-Z and puts it into an empty list that is then made into a string and printed into a file with writePad(). 

### **decipher(message, pad)**

Turns the message and pad into a list of characters with getChar() function and then turns each item in the list into its corresponding ASCII number with ord(). It then goes through a for loop which checks if each element in message is between 65 - 90 or 97 - 122 so we can make sure only letters are shifted. The for loop also checks if the item in pad is between 65 - 90 or 97 - 122 to decide how to shift the pad. The letters are then shifted and chr() is used to make each element in the list into characters and ten turns it into a string to then be written in a file.

> *Note*: Since we are deciphering, we subtract the message and pad after they are shifted. 

### **encipher(message, pad)**

Turns the message and pad into a list of characters with getChar() function and then turns each item in the list into its corresponding ASCII number with ord(). It then goes through a for loop which checks if each element in message is between 65 - 90 or 97 - 122 so we can make sure only letters are shifted. The for loop also checks if the item in pad is between 65 - 90 or 97 - 122 to decide how to shift the pad. The letters are then shifted and chr() is used to make each element in the list into characters and ten turns it into a string to then be written in a file.

> *Note*: Since we are enciphering, we add the message and pad after they are shifted. 

> *Important Note About Shifting Pad*: to shift the pad, there needs to be a separate variable, x = 0, that increments by 1 when the message us shifted so characters that are not letters dont get shifted, such as a space or dash. 